---
permalink: /past-work/
title: Past work
---

Below is a sample of 18F’s past work with federal clients. This list of
project types isn't exhaustive — we're currently working on additional
projects, which we'd be happy to discuss with you. Our team includes
experts with a wide range of talents, and we’re ready and waiting to
work with your agency to define a specific challenge and build a
solution that’s just right for you.

Website modernization
---------------------

We'll conduct user research to help your team evaluate the services and
online interactions your agency offers, and use that knowledge to make
sure we build the right thing, not just anything. We will also help you
update the way the public interacts with your agency and can bring paper
transactions online for a smoother, easier user experience.

### [myUSCIS](https://my.uscis.gov/)

![The myUSCIS homepage.](/intake/assets/images/past-work/myuscis.jpg)

We’re working with the U.S. Digital Service to move the U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services (USCIS) from a form-centric website to a
human-centric one. This includes work across numerous disciplines to
create a suite of resources and tools to demystify the naturalization
process, move application forms online, and design an improved account
system for applicants.

### [betaFEC](https://beta.fec.gov/)

![The betaFEC homepage.](/intake/assets/images/past-work/beta-fec.jpg)

The Federal Election Commission (FEC) has long been a pioneer of open
data, but 18F was able to help the FEC build its [first public
API](https://18f.gsa.gov/2015/07/08/openfec-api/), and a new site on
top of that API. This site will help make campaign finance information
more accessible to the public, as part of a larger redesign of the FEC’s
online presence. [Read more about the site and why we’ve released it as
a beta.](https://18f.gsa.gov/2015/10/29/welcome-to-betafec/)

Data projects
-------------

Our team of experts will help your agency create a API for your data so
it’s easily accessible to the public, and then our team of designers,
developers, and content experts can work with you to build an
interactive and informative tool on top of the data.

### [College Scorecard](https://collegescorecard.ed.gov/)

![The College Scorecard homepage.](/intake/assets/images/past-work/college-scorecard.jpg)

The College Scorecard site is an example of what 18F can do to help your
agency provide an interactive, well-designed way for the public to
access your data. We worked with the U.S. Digital Service and the
Department of Education to build College Scorecard to give students and
their families access to previously unreleased data about colleges and
universities so they can make better decisions. The site is built on top
of a public API, which also allows private individuals and companies to
use the data. [Read more about the College Scorecard
project](https://18f.gsa.gov/2015/09/14/college-scorecard-launch/).

### [U.S. Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative](https://useiti.doi.gov/)

![The U.S. Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative homepage.](/intake/assets/images/past-work/eiti.jpg)

The U.S. Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative website allows
the U.S. Department of the Interior to educate the public about energy
policy and the United States’ role in this international initiative
while also providing a beautiful, interactive visualization of resource
revenue data. Read more about the [user-centered design
methods](https://18f.gsa.gov/2014/09/25/design-studio-onrr/) we used
for the site.

Internal tools
--------------

Does your team have an internal process that relies on outdated
technology or a manual process? Let us work with you to investigate the
problem, involve your team in the solution, and make sure the final
product fits into the way your agency works. Let our product help your
team streamline their work so they can put more time and energy toward
the challenges in their path.

### [CALC](https://calc.gsa.gov/)

![An animated demonstration of the CALC tool.](/intake/assets/images/past-work/calc.gif)

The Contract Awarded Labor Category (CALC) tool helps the federal
contracting community make smarter, faster buying decisions by allowing
them to search for hourly labor rates across numerous government
contracts. The CALC tool is helping contracting officers move from
paper-based research to simple, efficient online search. [Read more
about the CALC tool
here](https://18f.gsa.gov/2015/05/12/announcing-the-calc-tool/).

### [Communicart](https://cap.18f.gov/)

![The Communicart homepage.](/intake/assets/images/past-work/communicart.jpg)

Communicart is a simplified, email-based purchasing approval tool for
purchase card holders authorized to buy office supplies for the
government. We designed it to be intuitive and convenient so that
federal employees could drastically reduce the time they spend on
purchase card approvals. [Read more about how Communicart
works](https://18f.gsa.gov/2015/08/06/communicart-tool-will-streamline-purchase-card-process/).

Digital strategy
----------------

Our digital strategy experts are ready to help advise your agency on the
rollout of your next big product, service, or campaign. We’ll work with
your team to hone your branding and develop strategies to ensure you
have a smooth launch.

### [\#TheNew10](https://thenew10.treasury.gov/)

![The homepage for the Department of the Treasury's #TheNew10 campaign.](/intake/assets/images/past-work/new-10.jpg)

Our consulting team worked with the Department of the Treasury on their
digital strategy around the redesign of the \$10 bill, consulted on
content and visual design for the website, and helped shape the social
media rollout.

Design and development workshops
--------------------------------

Not ready for a long-term engagement? Our cross-discipline team can work
with your subject matter experts to get a prototype off the ground in as
little as two days. These types of workshops can also help get your team
acclimated to agile design and development before embarking on a larger
project.

### [The Field Operations Handbook](https://18f.gsa.gov/2015/09/09/how-a-two-day-spring-moved-an-agency-twenty-years-forward/)

![The combined team from 18F and the Department of Labor working on the prototype for the online Field Operations Handbook.](/dol-handbook.jpg)

In two days, our consulting team was able to work with a team at the
Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division to take the four-volume,
printed Field Operations Handbook and create an internal prototype of an
online, searchable version. We were also able to demonstrate the power
of using agile design and development methods.

Platforms
---------

In addition to building custom digital services, we also develop
platforms that make it easy for a digital team inside your agency to
create their own site or service.

### [cloud.gov](https://cloud.gov/)

![The cloud.gov homepage.](/intake/assets/images/past-work/cloud-gov.jpg)

cloud.gov includes a Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) specifically built for
government, based on the open source Cloud Foundry. It provides a
secure, scalable platform for teams to build and host their application
or website. It can help development teams work faster and cheaper by
handling much of their deployment complexity. The cloud.gov platform is
currently in a small pilot program, but we will be expanding access over
time.

### [Federalist](https://federalist.18f.gov/)

![The homepage of the Social and Behavior Science Team, which was build using the Federalist platform.](/intake/assets/images/past-work/federalist.png)

The Federalist platform is a suite of tools designed to make it faster
and cheaper for government agencies to build websites that are secure,
responsive, and accessible. We developed Federalist for two audiences:
federal developers who need a platform for reliable, quick hosting of
static sites, and federal groups that may not have a developer on staff
but need secure, accessible, and responsive websites to get their
content out to the public. The [White House Social and Behavioral
Sciences Team](https://sbst.gov/) used Federalist to create and launch
the site pictured above.
